For each role you selected, please indicate why you are interested in this role and any related skills. What ways would you need to grow to fill the role? (100-300 words for each role) *

No background in these skills are required, but please share if you have any experience related to the position you applied for. Primarily, we are looking for leaders who are deeply committed to their personal development and supporting the movement.

Hub Coordination Fellowship (Remote, wherever you are): This role is for current hub coordinators to be supported to manage their hub more intensively for a 3-month period. The Hub Coordinator is responsible for building up the Sunrise Hub in their area. In the Hub, this person holds the group together by making sure meetings happen, making sure the meeting has an agenda, and following up to see if everyone else is following through on their commitments. The Coordinator also helps new members feel welcome and gives them ways to contribute. You should be in this role if you’re focused, organized, and good at seeing other people’s strengths and getting them involved. This role includes a 3-month time commitment, from June through August, in which you will be offered a stipend and support finding free or low-cost housing in order to continue coordinating a hub.

Digital Media (Movement Houses): Work with the Digital Team to get the movement's message out to millions through various online mediums including: social media, mass emails, graphic design and video for social media, our website, digital advertisements, and more. Fellows will focus on specific types of content based on skills and interest and will be responsible for managing volunteer teams and developing digital communications strategy for their platforms. This role will work best for people able to make a 6-month commitment, with built in evaluation period and knowledge that roles are subject to change. However, for people with existing skills in these areas, a 3-month commitment could be arranged. Likely based anywhere we have a movement house.

Press and Media (Movement Houses): Work with the Communications Team to track the news, respond to reporter inquiries, write op-eds, and help local hubs with media outreach. Additionally, fellow will help develop strategy responding to the news cycle, in coordination with partners and the organizing team. We're specifically looking for people with strong writing skills and/or experience interacting with the media. This role will work best for people able to make a 6-month commitment, with built in evaluation period and knowledge that roles are subject to change. However, for people with existing skills in these areas, a 3-month commitment could be arranged. Likely based anywhere we have a movement house.

Policy and Political (Movement Houses): Fellows will work with the Political Director on political communications, lobbying plans, and supporting the development of local and state Green New Deal policy development. They will be responsible for tracking candidate support for the Green New Deal, as well as assisting with managing our endorsements process. This role includes a 6-month time commitment, with built in evaluation period and knowledge that roles are subject to change. Likely based in a movement house in DC.



What are your plans after this program? Do you plan to stay involved with Sunrise and/or other social justice organizing? (under 150 words)

In Sunrise, we tell stories to connect with our friends and neighbors and to build community together. Tell us a short personal story about an experience you've had that motivates you to work with Sunrise and fight for a Green New Deal. Feel free to write, submit a short video, or use another medium of your choice. (100-300 words if written)

Tell us about a time when you were responsible for other people or a project where you had to make a difficult decision (this could be in your family, in your friend group, in previous jobs, at school, in a student group, or anywhere else). Walk us through the process of you making the decision. How would the other people involved describe your leadership style? What did you struggle with the most in this situation? Feel free to write, submit a short video, or use another medium of your choice. (100-300 words if written)
We believe that personal development necessary for leadership requires vulnerability and self-reflectiveness over hard skills. We encourage you to demonstrate these qualities answer when you answer this question rather than try to show elements of your resume.
